you've written 17 books on the topic of
sex so my first question how do we have
the best sex of Our Lives that's the
question that everybody wants to know
the first thing is Tracy Cox the world's
most celebrated sex expert she's got the
answers to the questions she's always
wanted to know and has a secret to a
great sex ride there is a decline of sex
isn't there yes there's a sex recession
if you haven't had sex for a year with
your partner it is very unlikely you're
gonna have sex again oh really are you
hopeful that we can turn that around yes
absolutely the key thing is women's fake
they're orgasm we have known that women
don't orgasm through penetrative sex
since karma sutra and yet most men will
go yeah yeah I've heard about that women
aren't having very many orgasms during
partner sex they're always fake the way
to solve the whole orgasm thing is how
do we predict if someone's going to
cheat on us number one being close
doesn't actually protect you against
infidelity he'll become so close to your
partner they're your best friend you
just don't see them as a sexual partner
anymore if you understand how sex works
and if you can make sex good with your
partner Affairs can be so preventable in
so many different ways women get bored
way quicker than men men don't get poor
because they get the orgasm as a reward
you need to give women interesting
erotic sex and then they'll be
interested otherwise they're not going
to be interested I've noticed a trend
that amongst my friendship group a
startling amount of them are in sexless
relationships yep what are some of the
most important Solutions if you want to
have great sex you need
that's what you have to do if you want a
good sex life
nominal advice
I have some breaking news
and no this is an emergency I've spent
the last two years writing a book and
I've written 33 laws for business
marketing and life that are derived from
all of these conversations I've had here
I traveled the world to write this book
I interviewed some of the most
incredible people I did
six months of extensive research on
scientific studies and principles to
cooperate everything that I wrote into
these 33 laws and ladies and gentlemen
that book called The Diary of a CEO the
33 laws for business marketing and life
is now available for pre-order
and there are five thousand only five
thousand signed copies
and it's first come first serve the link
is in the bio right now so if you want
that book honestly it's the best book
I've ever written it's the book I always
should have written it's the book I also
wish someone had written for me when I
was starting out in my career
I'm really proud of it I'm really really
proud of it really really proud of it
and I can't wait for all of you to get
to read it it's out in August I couldn't
be more excited about this as you can
probably tell I don't know what to say
to say other than the words I've said to
emphasize my excitement because I think
it's important and I think it's really
valuable
um Link in the description
[Music]
Tracy I reached out to my team and I
told my team that I wanted to have a
conversation with the individual in the
world that was
best and most educated and most engaging
on the subject matter of sex because
I've noticed a bunch of things in my
personal life in the lives of my friends
and those around me
um and I feel like people aren't having
the right types of conversation about
sex I feel like we're avoiding it as a
society and I feel like sex is so
intrinsically linked to Performance and
well-being and business and all the
things I usually talk about so they
found you and that's why you're here so
my first question is
who are you and what do you do what is
your mission
right I'm not a trained sex therapist
which is what everybody thinks I am I'm
a sex educator
um which is which I think means that
what I do is I look at all the research
and look at all the the sort of what's
going on in the sex world in sort of an
academic sense and then I work out okay
so that's all well and good but what
does this mean for you and I well not
necessarily you and I together but
people in the bedroom so I bring it down
to a sort of level that is more
practical that all my books are very
much like right so here's what we've now
know about sex here's how this is going
to help you in bed so I think my job is
to sort of get the research and make it
into something that you know the average
person can understand and make it work
for them so I sort of yeah I'm a I'm a
sex educator is a better way to describe
me you know part of the reason I wanted
to speak to you as I said at the start
of this conversation is because I've
noticed a trend I've started to like
smell it amongst my friendship group
where a startling amount of them are in
sexless relationships yep and they're
not they're not you know your book here
says great sex starts at 50. my friends
are the friends I'm talking about are in
their 30s yes and I I
and there's lots of things here there's
lots of thoughts and I want to figure
out which ones are true so
um I'm going to say a bunch of things
which are inherently naive and I know
they are so the first one is like why
aren't they having sex and more often
and is that a is that a problem are
there Partners to blame because they
seem to want to have sex and their
Partners don't
um is it wrong are those relationships
therefore broken and should they break
up with their partners because they're
not having that much sex
um so we'll go into all of that but
let's start with this this the point you
raised about how lust and love
are not necessarily great bedfellows
um how does one if they're in that
situation where they really love their
partner they're really really close to
their partner
um but they're feeling like the intimacy
has ran out the back door because of you
know that sexual intimacy is around at
the back door how do we create that
balance you talk about something called
otherness which I thought was really
compelling yeah
such a such a big question that is
because that's the question everybody
wants to know how do you keep desire
going long term
um the otherness thing is all about
the close couples kind of become like
Tweedle dumb and Tweedledee they don't
do anything separately but you you need
to have separateness from your partner
and this is why during covert no one had
sex at all in the beginning it was like
fantastic we can have sex at 11 o'clock
in the morning and then it was like oh
we can have sex anytime we want how
unappealing is that you know the more
available something is the less we want
it but the you need to separate from
your partner you need to be you know
have your own identity and your identity
with your partner and that's the
otherness that I talk about is seeing
your partner in the real world and
seeing them when you're not with them
like so many couples only ever see each
other at home in their house they never
see each other out and if you go out I
remember once variated on into the
relationship with my husband miles he
was walking through a restaurant and I'd
arrived first and he hadn't seen me and
I was he was walking through the
restaurant and I saw a couple of women
look over at him and I was like [__] you
know he's really attractive well I knew
that but he's you know and if I don't
you know he's he's out there all the
time you know like people are going to
be attracted to him so it sort of makes
you lift your game a bit so you need
that or if you see your partner at home
and you know hi hi you only ever see
them come through the front door they
become too safe and I think when people
say oh my partner would never cheat on
me I think how rude is that to think
that your partner's never going to treat
on you no matter what you do to them no
matter how horrible you are that's
terrible that's like saying your partner
you know is just a doormat that you can
do whatever I like to think that you
know my partner's not going to cheat on
me but you know that makes me think that
if I pledge monogamy I pledge that I'm
going to sexually satisfy my partner I
think you have an obligation to do that
and I'm going to keep myself looking
good because love is you know kind but
it's not blind and I'm going to do all
sorts of things I think it's a real
insult if somebody if Miles said to me I
know you'd never cheated on me I'd be
like
I don't take that as a compliment would
you
um I think it's important to know that
your partner will go and leave you if
you drop the ball in a variety of
different ways and I think that one of
the interesting points you raised there
is about like physical appearance or
keeping yourself well or keeping
yourself attractive do you think can I
fast a few people this over time do you
think we have an obligation to stay
In-Shape attractive whatever it might be
for our partners yes absolutely I don't
mean like you have to have facelifts or
you know anything like that but you
yourself as attractive as you can each
of you and I think you know that's not
just a physical thing I have to say it's
a it can be an intellectual thing yes
exactly it's an intellectual thing as
well because desire goes and especially
you know the you know grumpy old man
grumpy old woman thing when people age I
think that they become very set in their
ways and you know become quite you know
you don't want to be the bitter and
twisted person you could look like you
know a Greek god and if you're bitter
and twisted Japan is still not going to
want to sleep with you so yes I do think
we owe it to each other to say you know
to look as good as you can and to be as
positive as you can there is nothing
less sexy than being with somebody who's
miserable all the time who's a negative
person
it's so interesting that some of the
most attractive things I find in my
partner are when I look over and see her
doing her work and her things so
actually it's funny she doesn't actually
know this but but last night I came home
from work very very late because I was I
was out did some talks at them and I
came home and I got in through the door
and I my partner was sat at the kitchen
table it was about 11 p.m at night
designing her new studio on her laptop
with her headphones on
and I just found that really I took a
photo
and it's on my phone and I took a photo
because I'm like I'm proud of her in one
sense but it was really lovely that when
I walked through the door
it wasn't about me she was busy doing
her own doing her own stuff yeah and I
kind of like walked and I could almost
see how some people might find that
threatening I like hey babe give her a
kiss like on the she kind of like kisses
me back but then goes back to the laptop
I'm like
this is nice and I went I went over and
I sat on the sofa on my own and just
watched Manchester United but there was
something really attractive about it
yeah of course there is I mean watching
somebody at work doing what they love is
is the moment when yeah that you're like
wow this person's amazing I mean I would
hate to be a person who you know the
partners at home waiting for you and
where are you and it's all about so what
have you done nothing much how was your
day yeah that's not it's not healthy for
a relationship that puts it too much on
one person if you want to have great sex
you need to have an interesting life you
need to be doing interesting things
you're not going to be having great sex
if you're boring and you do the same
thing every single day because you just
end up doing the same boring sex you
need stimulation all the time and that
routineness is the the enemy of killer
yeah the killer for women the killer for
women because women are the ones that
find monogamy boring not men if you say
to men right you could have same sex
pretty much do the same thing every
single time
three times a week for the rest of your
life with this person most men ago all
right sounds right to me if you said
that to a woman she would go you are
kidding me but this is what's happening
women get bored way quicker than men and
they do so because our orgasm is far
more complicated than yours I mean
intercourse is usually the main event
for most couples sex intercourse is like
the the big bit that everyone aims for
right and that's great for men because
intercourse very successfully stimulates
the penis you know the penis wants to
rub in and out of something the vagina
does a great job fabulous for women the
clitoris is outside the vagina that some
of it is inside and you know because the
clitoris isn't that little tip by the
way it looks like a wishbone imagine a
wishbone and the tip of the clitoris is
at the top and then it goes down the
size of the legs right that's the
clitoris amazing 10 10 centimeters long
so because the clitoris is in on the
outside of the vagina intercourse
doesn't cut it for most women only 80 20
of women can climax through penetrative
sex twenty percent right that means
eighty percent of women are not having
their orgasms through intercourse so if
you're going to serve up the same
routine sex and most couples have sex
the same way over and over again every
time they have sex and that's your lot
as a female you're having sex which
doesn't give you an orgasm you're having
sex which doesn't isn't exciting isn't
erotic isn't you know in any way really
interesting women get bored men don't
get bored because they get the orgasm as
a reward women get bored because the sex
is just not the right sex for them so
the women's desire for sex goes down so
much faster than men's does so you need
to give women interesting erotic sex and
then they'll be interested but otherwise
they're not going to be interested
there are eighty percent of women
listening now that can relate yes
so
and it's funny because I was speaking to
a friend of mine I told them that I was
gonna have this conversation with you
and I said what would you like me to to
say and they this was the question they
had and it was linked to what you just
said they said I'm in a relationship
where my partner is having
um the same sex over and over again he's
coming very quickly during sex and I
don't know how to broach the
conversation with him about like this
isn't working for me
um without like embarrassing him or
whatever it might be what advice would
you give to that person gosh talking
about sex is is just the thing
I mean do you talk about sex with your
girlfriend how long have you been
together four years now oh well you're
just very open with things yeah well
done that's really good because most
people talk a lot about sex in the
beginning when it's all going well like
aren't we amazing it wasn't that great
lots of stuff the minute there's
problems they tail off and every sex
problem can be solved if you talk about
it if you don't talk about sex the
tiniest sex problem can ruin your whole
sex life and the reason people don't
talk about sex is that they worry
exactly whereas you just said that
they're going to hurt their partner that
they're going to upset them well you'd
just be really tactful about it and I
always talk about the the compliment
sandwich so say you want to say so she
wants him to be what give her more
foreplay something like that yeah just
he's he's cut he's reaching orgasm too
quickly and then she's obviously not
enjoying it because he's over and she's
still not you know her orgasm no well
the mantra for that is she comes first
always the way to solve the whole orgasm
thing in several ways one of the ways is
to have you know give her her orgasms
through oral sex fingers uh vibrator and
then you go on to intercourse which is
when he gets his orgasm so that's a very
I mean a lot of um couples do a lot of
straight couples do you'll notice
actually when I talk about sex I talk
about straight couples the reason why is
that gay couples have a lot better time
of it because they've got the same
issues going on so it sort of helps if
you go in lots of ways
um but I would say don't worry so much
about like if you say to if she said to
her partner look I really love our sex I
love our sex I particularly like it when
you do eggs but you know when you used
to do y give me more foreplay give me
oral sex I really really love that can
we do more of that so you're not saying
actually you you like not lasting long
enough and not lasting long enough is
not going to be an issue with most women
because they don't have their orgasms
through intercourse anyway so I think
that men need to calm down about that
they feel like they have to go on
forever and ever and ever and it's like
well she's not going to orgasm that way
anyway she's going to feel like actually
has to and then you get the faking it
and all that sort of stuff comes into it
but talking about sex is such a huge
issue for people and the funny thing
about talking about sex is that once
you've done it once it's it's the first
conversation especially you know I deal
with couples who haven't talked about
sex for 30 years and that first
conversation is excruciating you know
you're also like oh my God this is awful
I just want the you know Earth to move
like open and get rid of me but once you
move past that that initial awkwardness
which seriously lasts like three minutes
then all of a sudden it this relief the
amount of couples who say oh my God like
I can say actually I don't really like
it when you do that can you do this and
like you know does it worry you that you
know my erection isn't as hard as it was
when I was young and and you get
reassurance and then they're falling
over themselves you will never ever ever
regret trying to talk about sex with
your partner it is the number one thing
you can do for your relationship so she
should think about what she wants
be very specific men particularly like
they respond best to very specific
instructions so instead of saying look
this sex isn't working for me because
you know you you're climaxing too fast
and then all of a sudden it's over and
I'm just left high and dry if you say
this is my idea of the perfect sex
session can you just like let's just we
take turns you know we each have we
design our own perfect sex session you
know I could you start with kissing you
could move on to kissing my neck I
really like it if you play with my
breasts and then I love oral sex but
could you do it for a bit longer very
specific
and people are like well that's like
telling you know saying you like can you
say you love me and then they say I love
you back but no giving instruction in
sex is really most people are really
grateful for it and it might feel a bit
awkward the session after that where
he's thinking oh my God I'm just doing
exactly what she says isn't this
embarrassing and then all of a sudden
you forget about it and then the next
session and the next session is like
flowing and great okay so a couple of
counter points here just from personal
experience one of the things I've always
been a bit conscious of or no one of the
things that I think has irked me a
little bit is
and this goes back to what you said
about lust this kind of spontaneity and
the the uh the riskiness of it is I
don't want rules you know like I don't
want rules I don't want to be I don't
want to be in instructed during sex or
or even worse I don't like that do it
like this oh no it kind of kills the
like I think sometimes you can become a
little bit like
yeah that can then that can have an
impact on one's
erectional erection and their their like
mindset for I think sometimes for guys
so much of sex is Flowing feeling like
you can flow and sometimes if you get
like if you've got critical feedback
during sex yes like a
pressure stress which then the erection
might not you know hold out
well first of all it's natural for an
erection to come and go during any sex
session so that's not really important
but maybe yeah criticism isn't great
like don't do it like that move over
here or in a very barking you know
sergeant major you know can you move to
the left that's not so great but if you
if you do it I mean often men do it's do
don't hit the spot and they are doing it
wrong and so do you want women to just
lie back and go [__] it's not even
remotely close to where he should be but
I'm gonna pretend because that's what
and this is why women don't give men
instruction in bed is because they know
that a lot of men don't like it a lot of
men say you know it is you know it does
disrupt the proceedings but then it's
very quickly back on track if you do it
you know if you go and do what exactly
she wants personally I think sexual
instruction you can say or just over to
the left a bit or that feels great there
and you know whenever you can give
positive feedback rather than negative
is great so giving I'm sure you wouldn't
mind if she says no that's perfect stay
there stay there do it for longer yeah
exactly the key thing is the positive
framing yeah yeah that's the key thing
the key thing is absolutely that and
then if if maybe you still haven't
haven't hit the spot then afterwards you
say actually
um you know that didn't quite work can I
just tell you where or what works for me
and then demonstrate on your hand or
something that's always a really good
way to do it but yeah the key is in the
positive no one's going to respond to
sex where somebody's going oh that's not
right why are you doing that for that's
terrible yeah you know don't go there if
that doesn't feel anything you know no
that's terrible that's awful and those
instructional sessions should happen
when before sex during sex after sex
well depends on the couple a little bit
I mean you can use body language during
sex I don't know about before sex I
think maybe sometimes after sex when
you're getting on really well and you
know having a few drinks maybe if you're
a drinker and relax and just talking
generally that's sort of the time to say
by the way you know that I always think
that's a good time if you want to try
something new or to say by the way God
my friend was talking about doing X you
know what do you think about that I
always think things like conversations
about sex that are positive and exciting
and you know talking about trying new
things should happen outside the bedroom
really
um but otherwise yeah you do have to
have those instructional sessions I'm
afraid what if you want to do something
and your partner doesn't want to do it
generally a request for something new a
request for anything is just a request
for variety so say your partner says I
want to try having sex outside and you
really don't want to have sex outside
the correct answer to that is look
that's really not my thing but you know
why don't we try X most people if they
want to try something new if you give
them you know I'm not open to that but I
am open to something else then they'll
be fine about it but I mean where you
get into problems with somebody wanting
to try something other other partner not
wanting to try is if it's something a
bit fetish yeah and that's when you get
did you ever watch um billions you know
where they she had the fetches you know
have been whipped and wanting to be the
submissive and and he just let her go
off and be satisfied by a sex worker
that's one option by the way if your
partner as a fetish is to just go Okay I
accept that you've got this fetish and
it's not for me so if you if it's really
so much part of your makeup that you
can't live without it then go off with a
sex worker and satisfy that's the
extreme version but most of the time I
think oh you can meet halfway like say
um say your partner say you want to have
a threesome with two women well then the
meeting halfway might be that you have
phone sex with a sex worker maybe you
role play it maybe you go to a lap
dancing club and she gets a lap dance by
someone there is there's always some
kind of compromise in there where you
can capture a sense of what the other
person wants
okay so let's go back up to this this
initial question my friends they're in
their 30s sexless sexless relationships
they are increasingly frustrated about
it it seems um
it's funny I've got like you know I've
got this collection of my best friends
we're very talkative and communicative
around our sex lives and stuff and I
just noticed that in various ways
they're in situations where they're not
they don't feel like they're getting
enough sex from their partner and they
see it as a critical problem which which
might result in them for example being
um cheating or
um ending the relationship
even in my own um sort of sexual
experience what got me really engaged
with this subject matter was I was in a
relationship where the pop my partner
turned around to me one day after six
months and said like I don't like having
sex and as a young man like having sex
with me oh and as yeah as a young man I
I think with you know with an ego I
thought well what does that mean that's
super emasculating does that mean that
I'm not hitting it right or like do I
maybe it's her problem you know whatever
and so I went on that Journey what did
she mean so it's interesting because we
separated yeah my reaction was very like
and also
I turned to her and said like why and
she said the next sentence was I'm not
comfortable talking about that with you
oh yeah so for me that was like the door
had closed of course it do because where
do you go with that yes exactly so I
broke up with her yeah and um year
passes we both go to different places we
both gonna you know figure ourselves out
a little bit and on her journey she
really got to understand that at the
heart of her relationship with sex was
this fear that had derived from previous
relationships where the partner was very
forceful you know um a parent cheating
all of those things that we kind of
discussed earlier so it wasn't that she
necessarily didn't like having sex there
was a lot of psychological work to be
done on removing that fear of like
abandonment and really if I made her
feel safe really really safe then the
sexual appetite would return that's what
happened oh so a year later we get back
together we ended up having the best sex
of Our Lives on an ongoing basis
um and it was because she was able to
understand I was okay so if she was able
to understand what was really going on I
was able to like be patient enough to
like listen and you know go from weeks
and weeks and months with not having
sexual intimacy and just be there
which allowed her to feel safe and then
beyond that we were able to kind of like
rebuild it fantastic and we're still
together today oh my God so this is your
girlfriend yeah I'll have to ask her for
permission to say this or I'll show her
the clip and make sure she's comfortable
with it yeah but um
extraordinary story so we went from a
point of I don't like having sex I'm not
having sex really really bad situation
to the best situation I think one can
imagine in that department obviously
communication was at the heart of it um
and giving her space to you know and and
I give the credit to her because she
figured that out but that's what got me
really into the subject matter because
I've now got loads of friends that are
in that situation
what I would say to your friends is
if your partner doesn't want to have sex
with you
I wonder whether how good the sex is
because
a lot of women say no I'm presumably
these straight couples a lot of women
say no to sex because the sex that's on
offer is not that interesting to them so
for this we need to talk about sex
drives spontaneous desire versus
responsive desire have you heard of that
yes yeah from reading your book
so spontaneous desire is two-thirds of
men have spontaneous desire and it's the
desire that everybody has at the
beginning and by the way if you want to
know somebody's resting libido you cut
you've got to wait about a year you have
to wait about a year to find out what
their real libido is because it's always
so artificially inflated at the start
right but so spontaneous desire
two-thirds of men have this it's it's
the you know want to see wanted to see
you know seek sex want sex seek sex they
can go from people with spontaneous
desire could be like scrolling through
Instagram somebody's sexy walks past and
it's like wow I'm instantly aroused for
sex they go from zero to a hundred very
quickly they seek out their mate want
sex and they're off right responsive
design fire means that you have no
desire for sex or very little desire for
sex until somebody is actually doing
something to you sexually so this is
somebody who you know maybe is with
their partner their partner wants to
have sex they're not even slightly
interested but goes okay look I'll give
it a go then once start things start
happening if their partner is very good
at stimulating them and they enjoy the
stimulation all of a sudden they're like
yeah actually yeah I'm enjoying this
that's the warming up that's the warming
up right now 30 of women have responsive
desire the rest of them are a mix
between spontaneous and responsive most
men so you've got this situation where
most men have spontaneous desire most
women are responsive most men are very
happy to go straight to genital sex they
don't need warming up the way their
Anatomy works for women for prey isn't a
luxury it's a necessity because in order
for sex to be comfortable you need the
vagina to tent so it literally puffs up
so that it can you know take a penis
comfortably so if you don't wait for
that to happen and you'd go male style
sex go straight for penetration she's
not even off the starting blocks and
suddenly you're penetrating sex isn't
great and then it's all over so the men
you could have like not even thinking
about sex to having finished within 10
minutes
for women they need time to warm up
because their sex drive is responsive so
they're almost like blinking it's over
and they haven't even got to five
percent desire
and this is the problem with couples and
that's that's with I'm talking about a
very basic couple who probably don't
talk about sex and who aren't terribly
sexually savvy so I think because I
think people have an understanding vague
understanding that women need more
foreplay I mean that's been drummed into
men hasn't it but I think that what
women don't understand is that women
think you know at the beginning it was
great it was all spontaneous I desire
was there you know when you get into a
long-term relationship desire doesn't
tap you on the shoulder anymore you have
to create it and women I think think
because they're that spontaneous desire
is gone
and they don't feel like sex it just
doesn't come out of the blue unless they
start having sex they think oh that just
must mean I don't want sex anymore well
something's wrong with me I don't want
sex anymore you do want sex it's just
that you've got to be have sexy things
happening to you before you feel the
desire for sex
and if people understood that if women
understood it better and stopped saying
oh well it obviously means my sex
drive's gone no it hasn't it's there
you've just got to have great
stimulation and great sex to get it back
and the other thing about women is that
women we have this thing about that
women want tame and they want romance
and stuff that's not true so much
research now shows that women like
erotic wild sex I mean they've done
these experiments with women where
they'll show them erotic videos and
they'll wire up the genitals to measure
genital response so when you're aroused
as a woman blood flows to the genital
same as men and you lubricate so they're
watching all these videos various sexy
videos and they have to say you know for
anything is disarousing you no because
society says no we're not supposed to be
and the genitals are like are you
kidding what are thinking this is
fantastic I'm absolutely say yes to this
say yes to this so the the you know that
there's such a big difference between
what we're taught and what we would like
so if your girlfriend's saying no to sex
and you're in a long-term relationship
it's because you're not giving her
interesting enough sex give her exciting
erotic sex give us something like
actually this is what we're going to do
I mean look at 50 Shades of Gray that
got middle-aged women wanting sex with
women who hadn't wanted sex for 20 years
I remember being on holiday with my
husband and we started talking to this
couple it was around the time when 50
Shades came out and she knew what I did
and she said she said God I hadn't
really had great sex with my partner
wasn't interested in sex you know for
like 10 years she said I read the book
I'm sitting there at two o'clock in the
morning I'm looking down at my partner
I'm thinking I really just want to wake
him up and have sex with him and she
said and I've never and and then she
said and I read the books and suddenly I
was back into this erotic sex with my
husband that I just forgotten I'd
forgotten about like you think of sex
it's like oh God here we go kissing a
bit fumbling you know and then the
routine sex but give people something
interesting like all your friends give a
really interesting scenarios take us
somewhere sexy push her out of her
Comfort zones don't give a romance don't
give her you know give her sexy sex and
then they'll be interested
hmm
I'm thinking of my friends like posing
that and how uncomfortable they'd feel
really like babe I want to drive to the
countryside because you know when you've
been with someone and you've become that
kind of sibling thing that you described
earlier they might almost look at you
with a bit of horror horror yeah yeah
you wouldn't go straight from not
talking about sex to like and we're
gonna go on a lap dance club tonight and
no you have to you have to have the
conversation you have to bite the bullet
and have the conversation because the
thing about sexist relationships if you
haven't had sex for a year with your
partner it is very unlikely you're gonna
have sex again with your partner unless
you confront it head on if you just
think yeah this will pass this will pass
it will never pass you're not going to
suddenly go oh my God look at that we
haven't had sex for five years let's go
to bed now no it's got to the awkward
awkward awkward stage so I mean 30 of
couples who have been together for two
years or more don't have sex
tears not 10 years two years thirty
percent it is very easy to get out of
the habit of sex and once you're out of
the habit of sex the less often you do
it and then couples get into this thing
where it's like God we haven't had sex
for ages but you know what next weekend
we'll have this Marathon sex session and
that'll make up for it all and then the
marathon sex session is like oh God how
am I going to find time for that or you
know that's a bit daunting and then of
course you'd have to have sex for like
six weeks to make up for the session so
it just becomes more and more
insurmountable so I always say to people
just have little point-sized bits of sex
you know don't have sex doesn't have to
have a beginning a middle and an end
like have a big Snogging session have a
thing where he gives you oral you don't
do any you know give nothing back or you
give him moral or you know you just do
something sensual together you have a
bath together that's counts as sex you
know people think sex has to have
intercourse in there it doesn't it's the
least favorite bit for women take the
Intercourse out
start doing little bite-sized stuff to
reconnect sexually
it's like a frog in a frying pan that
old analogy of how slowly that you know
the frog doesn't realize it's being
heated in a frying pan until the water's
boiling and it's dead like it happens
very very gradually in relationships it
does and then you get to a point where
you go how the hell did we get here yeah
and at that point you have to have The
Talk The Talk this is interesting
because one of my my friends was talking
to him about it and I was saying like
you've let it gradually stray so far and
you're currently letting it you're not
addressing it you need to Stage a crisis
it's kind of the way I framed it to him
which is like you need to say stop like
this relationship has to stop we have to
have a conversation now because I'm at a
point now where I'm either going to
leave this relationship or I'm gonna end
up cheating or something so we'll need
to fix this together and it needs to
feel important yeah or else it'll be
allowed to simmer that's exactly right
and of course what lots of people do in
that scenario is they just turn to porn
yeah and they just satisfy themselves
with porn but that's not ideal obviously
but you well because it's it's it's
pretty solid sex isn't it just watching
porn and masturbating you know there's
really funny about porn actually because
I used to have a great relationship with
porn I used to say to people all the
time like Pawn is your friend watch it
with your partner it's great for you
know if you've got a high sex drive and
your partner doesn't it it you know you
can satisfy yourself it keeps your
imagination you know piqued you you know
can satisfy that sense of newness by
watching porn and now pawns moved into a
really
ugly stage with you know there's such a
a concentration on aggressive acts like
spitting choking choking is terrible
um slapping across the face it's become
very much like that and young men are
growing up to think that this is what a
normal sex session is like this is
normal real life sex it is not Paul is
nothing like real life sex and then
women look at it and go gosh right okay
that's obviously what's expected of me
this is what I have to do and it's it's
moving into a very nasty Direction they
say unmet expect patients equal
unhappiness so by setting expectations
up here is like we're going to do this
for an hour and I'm going to tie you up
and spit on you and choke you and you're
going to make this sound and you're
going to scream and you're going to tell
me I'm this and you're going to say that
I'm your father whatever yeah first
thing it might be then for those
expectations equals unhappiness in the
bedroom you go well you know I'm gonna
have to go looking for something else
exactly and that's what young men do
because they think that's what sex is
going to be about it's not all so then
they keep looking for the girls who will
give them down and then girls very
quickly figure out okay if I want to be
liked I have to do that I've just done a
big thing on choking and um and I
interviewed all these young girls and it
was it was horrifying it was they
they've been I mean between 58 of
college students between the age of you
know like had all been choked I think 30
of them had been asked and I'm not
talking about you know symbolic choking
of just putting a hand on the throat
which even that freaks me out but I'm
talking about you know cutting off wind
Supply there was one girl who told me
she was 21. she she'd gone out with this
guy he seemed really nice he started
choking her she said no she passed out
she woke up
next to this guy who was asleep he then
said to and then she got herself out of
there and was like oh my God you know
terrified he texted her the next day and
said oh my God babe this sex was awesome
let's meet up again and she was she was
just like how could you possibly think
that that was good and that worries me a
lot I think that that I mean I sex I
think it's moving in a great way in lots
of ways particularly for young women
except for things like that I think that
is terrible so no you don't want to be
satisfying yourself with porn but you
have to have the conversation if sex is
now out of your marriage you cannot just
let it go and be the elephant in the
room because exactly what you said is
going to happen you're going to leave or
you're going to cheat
so you sit down with your partner and
you say listen we really need to have
discussion about this I love you
desperately
um but I miss our sex I really we used
to have lovely sex I love having sex
with you you're really desirable it's
it's you know and I can we talk about
why this isn't happening anymore
are you having the sort of you know is
it that the sex that we're having isn't
doing it for you what can I do to make
you you know want to have sex more often
with me because I would really love to
have sex with you more often can we have
a discussion about this okay I've got
friends that have tried that and what
happened
um the partner doesn't necessarily know
it's a similar situation to what I
thought the one on the situation I
described that I was in where my partner
turned around and said something because
they might not have the information
themselves they go well I just don't
like having it and they might not know
that the you know the responsive sex
language that you talked about and they
might not know what's going on with oh I
see the partner might not know why she
doesn't why sure he doesn't like having
sex
um and then you can hit a wall don't you
well that's when you educate yourself
that's when you give me a few of my
books yeah to give you a bit of
education but I mean okay so the partner
who wants sex is generally more driven
so maybe they could sexually actually
educate themselves and say you know I've
been reading up about this perhaps it
might be because if this can be try
having sex this way but it's all about
breaching the topic and then I mean
depending on the reaction I mean I know
I've you know encouraged some people to
have this talk and then they've got an
answer which is just startling well
they'll say I don't want to have sex
anymore I'm not interested did in
solving this so that's it so you just
have to put up with it
that's basically well what I got if
somebody says that to you and they
really and you've tried on several
occasions and you I I think that is
grounds for walking out myself and I did
yeah yeah and a miracle seems different
yes because then people did some soul so
and sometimes maybe you walk out and
then the person thinks well gosh
actually that's not very fair because
monogamy is all about you know I pledge
to only have sex with one person but if
that person withdraws sex then where are
you left apart from having solo sex and
you know or you have an agreement okay
well if you won't have sex with me then
what are my options my options are to
satisfy myself to cheat you happy for me
to seek the sex elsewhere and lots lots
of times people will say yeah actually I
am I don't want to know about it I don't
want it to be in our friendship group
and we're going to have to have rules
about this but you know some women are
more than happy for that to happen or
some men are more than happy for that to
happen it's not just a female thing here
men go off sex as well on this point of
porn as well there was I read something
recently about the shame that it's
causing in in people like I think the
study that I read and I'm yeah I think I
read that too about 40 of men that use
um that masturbate to porn report to
feeling a sense of Shame and then when
we think about the sort of macro where
we are in sex as a society right now
there is a decline of sex isn't that
going on which is absolutely quite
concerning yeah there is a there's a sex
recession and that's very much because
I mean basically there wasn't a sex
recession before social media streaming
phones it's all to do with that we have
too much to do we basically just go off
sex because we have other things to
entertain us you know pre-order 10 34 on
a Saturday night most couples were
having sex there was nothing else to do
that was it we just did two you know
there's that going on so we're too busy
we've got too many other things on our
plate that's the main problem with
long-term couples then you have like I
think less face-to-face communication
with me which makes people quite nervous
if you haven't had sex before and you're
dealing mainly with you know FaceTime
calls you know video calls which is what
lots of young people are when you're
face to face they get very nervous they
don't know anything about Body Language
they don't know how to connect and sex
becomes scary in Japan there's something
like 30 no higher I think more like 45
of people get to the age of in their 30s
and their virgins they've never even had
a sexual encounter
and they just and if you don't give your
body sex your body doesn't want sex so
they could quite happily go through life
completely sexless that's what's going
to end up happening with sex we are
becoming less and less and less and you
know the more we go into Virtual Worlds
the more I mean the amount of people who
rely on porn for sex who can't even be
bothered going out and finding a partner
because it's all too difficult
I mean we're it's becoming less and less
about the intimacy and more and more
about just the getting off part we're
now in an AI world as well yes
terrifying which is very interesting yes
because you're now you know we've heard
about sex dolls and stuff like that over
the years but a sex doll that can speak
to you with such depth and reason and
apparent emotional uh nuance and
understanding is really really scary you
can think I was thinking about thinking
about this thinking about all the
different ways that AI is going to
disrupt us as like the social fabric of
society one of the really clear ways
that was you can now have a sex doll in
your house that speaks to you that
comforts you that understands your
problems understands what you're going
through and can give you unbelievable
advice Will Never Shout at you or never
criticize you and will please you in a
in a personalized way it will learn how
to please you
think about all the lonely people
think about all the lonely people that
can now have a
companionship
if you're somebody who can't find a
companion in real life or you're lonely
I mean it's better than a dog isn't it I
mean it's I I mean I think that's got
some really nice applications to it but
it's also got some dire applications to
it because then you know It ultimately
we'll end up with a with no population
will because no one will be having
sexual person yeah so I think you think
you can see the short term oh well you
know Dave's going to be slightly more
less lonely potentially yeah right but
if we if we go up that exponential curve
of improvement we get to a point where
this thing is walking it talking it is
making you making your breakfast your
dinner your whatever then it's
satisfying you on demand and then you
look over at a human and you go
they're going to be more interesting
aren't they that's what I'm saying
they're going to be better in every way
you know no I think humans will be more
interesting surely do you want like
somebody like it's like a yes person I
don't want a yes person in my life I
want somebody to think they do yeah
people I think people will choose the
short term without thinking about the
long term of like connection and
companionship over time and Challenge
and different solving problems you know
I think the average person if they could
be faced with a with if they were to
draw their perfect partner they wouldn't
say I want difficulty and Challenge and
sometimes to walk out arguments and to
be interrupted when the football's on
you know you're not going to put that in
there but then I think surely over time
I don't know I I do worry about AI with
humans and I don't share you know like
some people present the argument like
would be free to do all these amazing
esoteric things we won't we'll just sit
there and look at social media and get
fat and drink and sit in our rooms
watching porn that's what we'll do yeah
because we choose the like short-term
dopamine over the long term yeah instant
gratification gosh that is scary that's
going to be a huge industry yeah I mean
it really is a big industry yeah these
these living AI sex dolls will be a huge
industry I don't think they've quite
perfected the robot a bit though have
they
um so there's a couple of things
happening in in tandem I mean Elon Musk
is is working on his own um robots at
Tesla we have Boston robotics I believe
they're called who have been working on
robots for a long time but um it's gonna
move very quickly as as all exponential
curves do so now we've got the kind of
machine learning modeling
um ml MLM AGI they call it artificial
general intelligence stuff moving
quickly the robotics side I think is
going to gain Pace because now there's a
greater demand but it's really really
it's one of the things I am did you see
that film blade back in the day no it's
all large in the real dot real girl do
you remember that that was about a guy
who had a sex doll oh really and the
whole village
um sort of accepted it and then when he
didn't need her he got a real person at
the end but no I didn't see blade just
there's a scene in this film called
blade where he puts on a headset and
it's set I mean it was 20 years ago and
upset in the future in the future puts
the headset on and this headset you know
is exactly that it's an AI that
basically gets him off and it's the time
of his life and actually they sit his
cup his partner sits opposite him and
they both put the headset on and they
yeah actually I do think I did yeah it's
a scary one that's what we'll be doing
we will be doing that
I mean we're kind of going that way
already with porn and we talked about
this sort of macro decline in sex
are you hopeful that we can turn that
around
and I have
cope with the young generation of women
I think this is the first generation of
women who really have probably the least
sexual Hang-Ups that we've ever had and
I think that
I mean young women are much more
adventurous than young men it's sort of
going in a weird Direction I think that
way and all the young women that I'm in
contact with I'm talking about young
women in their 20s early 30s we know
that young women are more bi-curious
than men we know that young women are
more interested in threesomes with two
women than men are we know that young
women are more interested in going to a
sex club than men are we know that young
women are more interested in polyamory
and they they don't want several love
relationships they want
the lovely relationship and then they
want to be able to have sex with men on
the side it's not men thinking like this
this is women thinking like this and I
think that it's going to make for more
interesting relationships and because
the whole women are overturning
everything like the motivation for
Affairs now has completely reversed so
men used to have affairs for sex now
most men if they're in a good
relationship will satisfy that with porn
right most men
um now men have affairs for love and
affection
women have affairs they used to have
affairs for love that they weren't
getting from their partner now they have
affairs for erotic sex sex where they're
not looking after their partner they can
be selfish they don't have to care about
whether they hurt his feelings or say
don't do it that way they're not going
to care about whether Stephen doesn't
like it if he's being instructors like
do that do this they want that sort of
sex right and that's why they're having
Affairs so I feel like my hope is that
women are going to take the charge and
go forward and we're going to end up
with sex it's more interesting sex
that's less doing everything to please a
man more equal you know this is what I
need this is what I want this is what
you need this is what you want let's
work out the best way to do that
together
not where you know because so many women
still now that's the thing does
disappoint me is still have sex to
please men still pretend to have orgasms
during penetrative sex because Society
is brainwashed we have known that women
don't orgasm basically through
penetrative sex since Kama Sutra which
was written in the third to fifth
century and yet most men will go yeah
yeah yeah I've heard about that I've
heard about that it hasn't happened to
me I've just been really lucky for all
my girlfriends you know I mean it's just
like they're faking they're faking
because the girl before faked and they
feel they have to fake and you know
every depiction of sex is that you know
everybody has this Mutual orgasm
simultaneous orgasm together
and that's just how sexy it's well it's
not like that it's a it's totally not
like that at all speaking of young women
in your book great sex dance at 50 one
of the things you talk about is the
issue of sort of sexual confidence and
sexual self-esteem
um talk about that in the opening
chapter of the book and
I found it really compelling really
interesting that
women
view themselves differently when they
look in the mirror which has a libido
impact body image is terrible they've
just done a study which looked at
two decades 20 years of study so they
did a study on all the studies on body
image and it turns out that it impacts
every single area of sex regularity of
sex enjoyment of sex arousal desire
orgasm and it makes sense that if you
don't like your body you're not going to
want anyone to look at it or touch it it
is the biggest problem with women today
and their sex lives is that often you
know this is the other thing with your
friends
you know had they just had babies has
their body changed you know are they not
feeling so desirable you know desire I
think feeling desired by your partner is
much more important to women than you
know anything else if your partner looks
at you in a you know like God you're so
hot you're so sexy that is the biggest
turnout of all and if you're feeling not
great about yourself and your mindset is
so much down on yourself that you think
I don't even how could he possibly look
at me and think that I'm attractive then
you'll never feel that your partner
confess you to death but you're never
going to feel it because your brain's
just gone nope I am not sexually
attractive anymore
so that is a real problem it's a real
problem and you know what the solution
is for that is not to go off and get a
facelift or get your hair done or lose
weight or go to the gym more though
actually going to the gym more is one
exercise is really good for your sex
drive and for your self-esteem but the
other thing is that cura's body image is
um is actually to have sex more
if you have sex more often and your
partner enjoys it your brain goes on a
subconscious level well you know what it
can't be that bad because he's having
sex me or she's having sex me whoever's
having sex with you they're enjoying it
and so you it start your brain starts to
make sense of it all and go okay right
you know this is
I'm obviously not as undesirable as I
think and it starts to sort of become
better and more able to be dealt with so
the more you have sex the better because
it gives you confidence and sexually
confident women
women who think they're good in bed so
increase your skills as well if you're
worried that you're not a great lover
read up on it buy some of the books go
online look up technique you know
because technique is very important and
the better lover you think you are the
less you worry about what you look like
in bed we all know that sexually
confident women win all the time and
sexually confident women put on weight
the same way other people do as they get
on in life etc etc you know their bodies
are different after pregnancy but they
don't focus on them they're like hey I'm
a brilliant lover who cares you know
he's not looking at that he's just
thinking how fantastic I am so it's more
about increase your confidence as a
lover exercise more
and I mean then the obvious take this
off of social media stop comparing
yourself to other people all that sort
of stuff but it's it's difficult it's
very difficult and I think men suffer
from this as well
that's so unbelievably true especially
um
especially the part that it also relates
to men because I've got multiple
accounts from female friends of mine
that are in a heterosexual relationship
that have told me their partner won't
have sex with them with his top off or
with the lights on
um and also the point there about how
you solve that body confidence issue
that
confidence comes from the evidence you
get from doing the thing yeah
and also if you are worried about your
body when you're having sex close your
eyes like close your eyes and think
about what you're feeling it's about
what what you're feeling not like how
are you looking because if it's
stressing you out and you're looking at
thinking oh my God he's looking at my
thighs he's looking at this just close
your eyes and go into yourself or become
more active that's the other way to
overcome body issues is if you're really
active in bed and you're like looking at
your partner and you're talking dirty
and you're making lots of eye contact
that way anything to sort of take
yourself out of yourself is good you
either go into yourself and focus on
what you're feeling rather than what
you're looking like or you sort of
become way more active that also works
three things that boost sexual
self-esteem easily in your book initiate
sex to feel more powerful yes absolutely
initiation is such a big thing on so
many levels and if you don't ever
initiate sex with your partner you're
essentially saying I don't actually
enjoy having sex with you I'm only
having sex with you because you've asked
me to have sex with you and people argue
about that it's like well his Sex Drive
is way bigger or you know higher and
lots of stuff it doesn't matter you
really need to have a thing where you
know if if your partner's got a much
bigger sex drive than you you need to
say something look okay it's really sexy
being the person who's the sexy one in
the relationship that's why you know
it's great it's nice to be that person
but I want to be the sexy one in the
relationship so hold off on initiating
for a while and give me a chance to
initiate so that I can feel more
powerful and it's it's such a great
Dynamic that that power dynamic in in
you know relationships is really
important that you have to be sometimes
the dominant person you have to be the
submissive person and if you swap around
it makes for a much more interesting sex
life but if you don't initiate something
it's a real cop-out to never initiate
sex I really do think so and when women
do it who don't often initiate sex what
often happens is that they'll be so
subtle that the man misses the point
completely it's like well I gave him
this really sexy kiss and it was like
yeah and yeah anything else anything
else that went with that and he didn't
even you know and now I'm not going to
do that and it's like oh for God's sake
just be really obvious about it be
really obvious about it and going back
to initiation just be aware
that how you initiate sex will influence
whether or not your partner says yes so
if you initiate sex the wrong way your
partner might say no to sex because you
just approached it all the wrong way
whereas if you approach your partner
that you know has got a responsive sex
drive by talking cuddling connecting
whatever she wants could be you know she
might want you to initiate sex like that
but you know and getting her in the mood
the way she wants to be in the mood not
the way you would like her to get in the
mood but the way she wants to be in the
mood she'll probably say yes to sex so a
lot of people say no to sex isn't that
they don't want sex they're just being
approached the wrong way and they're not
being warmed up the right way
so if you can solve those two basic
things it can change everything feels
like there's something really
fundamental here that we we assume sex
will take care of itself it never oh my
God writing all those textbooks when I
go to a dinner party people either want
to sit next to me or they go as far away
from you as they possibly can because
they're terrified and the people who say
to me oh God but I don't need a Sex book
I'm like yes you do you're the person
that needs a Sex book I've written 17 of
them and I'm still learning about sex
there is so much to learn about sex how
can you think you possibly know
everything about sex without ever
educating yourself and it's changing of
course it is but people who think that
they're born great lovers they don't you
know I think the female response system
is complicated who knew what a clitoris
was back in the day you know like
they're difficult stimul actually
they're not that difficult you just give
it a vibrator and then they're fine but
um you know it's not easy being a great
lover and can I just say one more thing
about orgasms is we worry too much about
orgasms and how we get them there is no
right way to have an orgasm because
everyone thinks the right way to have an
orgasm is during intercourse with your
partner and preferably them climaxing at
the same time simultaneous orgasms
hardly ever happen for a start they're
always faked so the easiest way to give
a woman an orgasm I mean great women can
be very easily orgasmic if you use the
right finger technique if you give her
the right oral sex technique but the
thing that is most expert at stimulating
the clitoris is vibration
most women can have an orgasm within
three minutes with a vibrator so we have
this big orgasm gut problem where men
are having lots of orgasms during
partner sex women aren't having very
many orgasms during partner sex because
they don't understand each other very
well because sometimes people just just
can't relax with another person there
right
so the solution is to put your hand in
the bedside drawer and bring out a
vibrator and she would have an orgasm
every single time the same way you have
an orgasm every single time why don't we
all just do this it's the easiest
solution in the world but we don't young
men are better at it they'll often say
oh you know and she'll say if women are
honest and they'll say look you know
that was fantastic but I kind of missed
the moment a bit which you can as a
woman can I just use my vibrator or can
you use the vibrator on me sorted but we
have this like that's a cheating orgasm
yeah or that it takes something away
from the couple knows yeah yeah but it's
a solution I'm not saying have all your
orgasms like that but just maybe now and
then have the vibrator in the bed and
why is it inferior if you can have all
that intimacy if you've had the oral sex
you've had the Intercourse you've
thoroughly enjoyed it but it just hasn't
given you that tip over what I mean by
that question about this fundamental
belief that kind of sex is supposed to
take care of itself and I think that's
why we don't talk about it enough we
don't research about it enough we don't
try put invest in making it new and
exciting and different and all the
things you've said is because we just
shoot because at the start it kind of
takes care of itself doesn't yes it does
yeah first couple of months and then all
the sex hormones are there driving us
driving us without even us having to
think about it and then we you don't
think about sex as something you've got
to work on and talk about and invest in
and buy stuff for and you know change
all the time I've already got a job you
know I don't know well unfortunately
that's what you have to do if you want a
good sex life it's what you do and the
thing is it makes me laugh because we
put effort into every other thing you
don't I eat the same meal every single
night you find it buy a good cookbook
and look up recipes and experiment with
different things and no one goes well
that's terrible without so much effort I
don't have to do that I want to know how
to cook a three course caught on Blue
meal without even looking at a cookbook
well in the movies they never do it
there's no movie where they sit and talk
about sex what did you like okay you'd
like to do in the movies they come in
the door and to pick them up and they
put their hands back and they rip the
dress off oh you know and then do you
know what I'm the worst person to watch
TV with because I shout at the
television honestly there was a thing
called Dr Foster did you ever watch that
saran Jones was said it and there was
this couple they'd been together 10
years they woke up on a Sunday morning
right Sunday morning just woke up she's
a cause full makeup lingerie everything
um and next minute he's like thrown her
against the wall they're having sex
standing up and you know like all the
like I thought oh
fake this is a couple 10 years in it is
not happening like that and then even me
who knows that this doesn't happen this
is not the norm I'm like a little bit
like and I always turn to poor eyeballs
and I say you realize that's not true
you realize that this is not a real and
he's sort of like sitting there going
yep yep I do know like cover your eyes
don't have unreal expectations don't
think you're missing out on this and
because it's sad because people try and
they think that that hot sex at the
beginning should last a lifetime and
when it goes and you think the next
person you meet is going to last forever
this is this one's Gonna Last Forever
and then of course it dies down and dies
down and dies down you're like damn it
I've got the wrong person you haven't
got the wrong person it's because all
the sex and love hormones have stopped
working that's the only way to keep
having sex like that the only way to
keep having that beginning sex over and
over is to swap Partners constantly
constantly swap partners and you can
have that beginning bit over and over
again it is impossible to have that type
of sex you have at the start when you're
fueled by all these chemicals at the end
of a relationship or during a
relationship anything over two years
it's virtually you can have satisfying
sex great sex exciting sex but it's not
fueled by the same hormone so you cannot
recreate that and if people knew that no
matter what person you end up with then
they would stop leaving perfectly good
relationships in search of something
that's not ever going to be found
as you might know this podcast is now
sponsored by the incredible Airbnb and
Airbnb have saved me many many times
whenever I'm working away or on business
trips or on holidays but have you ever
thought about whether your home could be
an Airbnb when you're away on business
or on holiday or even just a part of
your home let me explain maybe your
roommate is moving out and you're
thinking about what to do with the extra
space well maybe you have a spare
bedroom that you've never used you could
Airbnb it and make some extra cash for
bills or to pay for anything in your
life holidays or just for some extra
money I've airbnb'd my place previously
and honestly the process couldn't have
been easier it's something I'd highly
recommend you all to check out your
extra room that extra space you have in
your house you might be surprised how
much it's worth I was surprised how much
it was worth and you can find out how
much it's worth by going to airbnb.co.uk
slash host that's airbnb.com host check
it out I've talked in this conversation
as if sexless relationships are in happy
relationships yes but that is not true
is it no it's not true you can often
have I mean people do instantly think if
they're not having sex oh my God you
know divorce is coming soon no I mean
you can get sex isn't the be-all and
end-all for everybody lots of people are
very low sexual libidos if you've got
two people who have low sex drives they
have a lot of sex at the beginning or
maybe not even that much and then all of
a sudden it fades off they're perfectly
happy some people are happy having you
know one great session every six months
that's enough for them it keeps them
perfectly satisfied so long as both of
you are like that but what doesn't work
is if one of you is highly sex driven in
the beginning you know we all worry
about compatibility please measure you
know match up with somebody who has the
same sex drive as you and I know it's
artificially inflated at the beginning
but don't commit to anything until
you're six months in eight months in a
year and don't marry anyone under that
because you don't know what their sex
drive is wait until after a year and
then you see and it's very difficult if
you've got a massively higher sex drive
and your other one doesn't but you can
be perfectly happy in sexist
relationships so long as both of you are
happy with that and also you know they
used to define a sexist relationship as
couples who had sex 10 times a year now
plenty of couples especially couples
over 50 only have sex 10 times a year
and they were like indignant to be
described as sexless so now they've
changed it to a sexist relationship is
one where sex hasn't happened in a year
and that's a low sex relationship to be
10 times a year but it's all dependent
on where you're at in life like if you
if you've just had babies and they're
under two you're not going to be having
a lot of sex if you're 18 you just got
together you're going to be having an
awful lot of sex you know if you're part
if you've just gone through menopause or
perimenopause and everything's gone to
hell you're not going to be having sex
at that period of time so you can't
there is no one-size-fits-all thing so
find your normal is what I would say and
if you're normal is no sex so long as
you have a conversation about it that's
fine but you what you cannot do is stop
sex and not talk about it that is really
really dangerous you've got to have some
kind of discussion even if that's
getting into bed one night and one of
you says we don't have sex much anymore
do you does it bother you no it doesn't
really bother me good
even if it's that
but you do need and you need to have
lots of affection lots of you need to
make up for that don't stop touching
physically because when sex stops people
often stop touching each other because
they're worried that that's going to
lead to sex and that's going to be
awkward so keep up the effect that's why
you've got to have the chair if you
don't have the chat affection stops and
if affection and sex stops then you are
in trouble
if you've got lots of affection you're
okay it's so long as both of you are
happy
interesting
but you're not going to be happy if one
person doesn't want sex to stop and the
other one does that doesn't make for a
happy relationship at all and in that
situation is it right to then just leave
no you have to chat and the chat is but
they say in the chat no I want more
sexes I don't want more sex than what
you do
well then you look at exactly you sort
of go through a process so you have the
chat you talk about you make sure the
sex that's on offer is good sex for the
person who doesn't want to you look at
anything around it like you know have
they got any childhood issues that need
dealing with what are the you know why
don't do they not want to want if they
don't want to want then you need to look
at what happened you know sexual trauma
there's I mean if the person that
doesn't want to have sex with you is
willing to look at ways to become more
sexual
stay of course stay you know there's
always hope yes there's tons of stuff
you can do you know you can you can take
strip sex right Back to Basics where you
don't have penetrative sex for a year
you might do the sense8 Pocus program
which is all about touching each other
without sexual intent and it might be
that you have to go almost like you've
got to learn how to have sex all over
again if your partner is willing to try
anything's possible definitely don't
walk out but if your partner says I
don't want to have sex with you and I
have no interest in having sex I've got
no interest in trying to you know bring
get back my desire and you're not
allowed to have sex either you're not
allowed to seek it anywhere else or you
know apart from running off to the
office and masturbating to porn well
which was have you gone I mean some
people stay some people stay in that
scenario because the love is very strong
and they've got kids or whatever but I
think that's an incredibly selfish thing
to say to a partner chapter nine of your
book it says that 33 of
um couples said that they rarely or
never
have had sex and one quarter of those
rated themselves as being extremely
happy that's right so something like 75
of people who were denied sex nearly all
of the time stay if the love is strong
people choose love over sex and of
course they do because how often are you
having sex even if you're having sex a
lot even if you're having sex once a day
twice a day it's still only really for
half an hour each time so you know in
the proportion of the time you spend
together you're the love bit's more
important than the sex bit it definitely
is unless the sex bit is really bad and
then it tends to poison the rest of the
relationship
do you do any sort of therapy for
couples the couples
and do individuals come to you for
advice in a professional context to get
no therapy I do friends and and friends
and friends and stuff like that I don't
because I lack the skills to
disassociate this is why I never became
a therapist because I'm not very good at
there are ways to solve a problem where
you can stand outside the problem or you
stand right in the middle of it all and
take it all on and I'm the stand in the
middle person and I and I wouldn't ever
be able to I would have no boundaries
they'd be calling me day and night so
now I can't do that
what are the most
common questions that people ask you
about sex and I'd like the ones that we
don't talk about enough
so you know I don't know whether it's
erectile dysfunction or whether it's oh
my God erectile dysfunction for men is
women don't appreciate how having not
been able to get direction or you know
is is the biggest psychological
catastrophe yeah men experience we can't
fake it no no penis envy who wants a
penis I certainly don't want a penis
it's all out there to see we can fake
everything but it's really difficult for
men and I think men I mean we have a
problem with Viagra by the way Viagra is
a big problem because young men take
Viagra because they want to have the
biggest hardest reactions ever and
they're worried about they're so
performance you know they have so much
performance anxiety because they're
watching too much porn and they think
that that's real so they take Viagra
because they think just this once you
know I'll be I'll just when it's the
first time I sleep with her I want to be
really hard and then of course you know
eventually you stop it or try to and
your girlfriend says oh this isn't you
know you're not as hard as you normally
are and suddenly you're back on this
cycle and then young women expect that
that is a normal erection which is not
anyone who's looked at a Viagra driven
erection and a normal erection they're
completely different and then on the
other end of it you've got older couples
who you know we've got two pop problems
with when you get over 50 or 60 men have
erectile dysfunction and women have you
know dry vaginas and very you know the
vagina basically atrophies so they've
solved it for men great take this pill
and suddenly you're like you were 18
again but you're still with this vagina
that's not 18 where it's going to hurt
like hell and then the man who suddenly
Got The Swinging penis is like well what
am I supposed to do with this and then
he goes off and cheats with somebody
because he's so happy to have this this
big rock art erection ago is there a
relationship problems age and infidelity
um I'm not sure about that I would say
as in men cheating later more likely to
cheat later in life or I know they're
middle-aged people cheat a lot because
that's when you've you've got choices
yeah yeah you've got choices you're
traveling you've got money and it's
probably easy to get away with you're
bored you've had the kids you know
you've established to take everything
for granted
um you know things like that make people
cheat it's opportunity Temptation and
your moral code you know it's not to do
with love it is to do with respect
though
red flags in relationships the most
compatible couples have compatible life
goals something I've heard you say
before yes
I think that is really important because
it is all about its timing is so
important and and life goals say you've
got you know you've got the perfect
relationship now your girlfriend's great
say suddenly you decided right I want to
go off to Africa and work with pygmies
for
five years this is my life goal you know
what's she supposed to do of course it's
important to have the same goals if
you've got one person who wants
adventure and you like to be hiking
every weekend and you know camping my
idea of hell they're not going to match
well with somebody like me who wants to
be in a nice hotel and you know having
lots of cocktails you know I mean like I
don't mind the odd campy in hiking but
do you know what I mean like you've got
to have you got to be compatible there's
some stereotypes that still sort of
exist and linger around sex and men and
women being you know one of the ones
that I was reading about in chapter six
of your book is studies show it's it's
not true men have a high sex drive than
women women have a different desire for
sex which you talked about studies also
show it's not true that monogamy is
harder for men than it is for women we
tend to think that men are the ones that
cheat exactly which has never made sense
because if we just pretend the world for
a second was due the heterosexual
equation every time a man is having sex
in a heterosexual heterosexual world so
as a woman so you know the numbers don't
quite add up it would one would assert
just from the looking at the numbers
that it's got to be quite close to like
50 50 to some degree yeah of course and
also like if you look at the stats on
who's happiest the happiest people are
single women and married men they're the
two happiest groups of people always
single women and married men are the
happiest I've been the happiest groups
of people like not married women
married women like end up doing all the
jobs and you know married women aren't
happier than single women
single women are happier than married
women and married men are really happy
because they get everything done for
them basically
what role do kids play in this whole
equation oh my God kids I think really
make the love part better I suppose
because you've created that thing but
they're terrible for sex terrible for
sex I mean the minute the kids come
along you can kiss goodbye for sex for
five years really really and people
freak about it and they're like it's
never going to come back and it will
come back of course it will but you know
all your energy is going to children so
I think if you're gonna have kids you've
got to accept that your sex life is
going to take a back seat for a long
long time don't panic about it keep
having little sexual connections that
aren't necessarily including intercourse
little bite-sized pieces of sex and
you'll be fine but don't kid yourself
it's not going to change your sex life
because it will boy will it people some
people think that having kids will save
their relationship God no it's so
stressful
I don't I do not understand this every
time I see somebody with a child you
only have to hang around children for
about two seconds to realize how
stressful they are if you've already got
problems in your relationship and
suddenly you're going to sleep deprive
yourself you're going to make have
somebody dependent on you 24 hours a day
how is this going to make you more you
know happier with your husband it
doesn't even make sense to me it might
stop people leaving because of you know
obligation but who wants to be with
somebody out of obligation
you said something that um in your work
that a neuroscientist told me on this
podcast which is that after the first
year non-parents are generally happier
over time than parents it's kind of a
controversial idea it is a controversial
idea but I mean there's a trade-off with
kids there's such a trade-off you can
never I mean and I think there's I'm a
step parent my husband has a daughter
and when we're going through hustles
with Sophia which she she's a little
darling but also could be a little devil
let me tell you
um
he can sleep I mean sorry I can sleep
Mars can't sleep and when I and I lie
there and I think gosh if I had given
birth to Sophia if she'd been you know I
wouldn't be able to sleep there's no way
that I'd be able to sleep it's it's you
are knowing that you're going to be
worrying for the rest of your life once
you have a kid
it's it's such a big responsibility and
when you have that responsibility it
means you know you're not going to be
able to do you're not selfless you
become selfless then don't you can't be
selfish and have a kid well you can you
can be a really bad parent but it's
different isn't it
it's really different I'm sure but then
parents say well you're the one that's
missed out because you don't have this
incredible and I have such a good
relationship with my mum and my dad and
and us three kids are all Milling around
them they're like 87 and 89 I'm thinking
no one's going to do that for me who's
going to do that for me I have to pay
for it so there is that when I hear that
stuff I do wonder if it's the term
happiness is the confusing thing because
you know a parent might say it's given
me such a sense of purpose or meaning
yeah of course if you ask me in a survey
on a Tuesday how I'm feeling after
staying up till [__] 2 A.M because
this kid was screaming I'm probably more
likely to report at any given moment to
being less happy but if you zoom out
there's more meaning and purpose one
might say that to try and provide the
counter argument
um I mean how many people who say what's
the best thing you've ever done they say
having children yeah everybody says that
yeah and they can't all be lying no one
says a promotion at work or whatever
else they say no they don't so it must
be you know I mean not everybody says
that but I I do know mothers who say God
you know what if I look back maybe I
wouldn't have done this but they're very
brave and they told childless women that
they never tell a woman with a child
yeah
women's libido I was reading in um in
chapter six about women's libido tends
to drop
as as as they age whereas men's
um seems to remain fairly stable
throughout the relationship
hey Bob but then they have the you know
women struggle with the drop of um
because menopause with all the drop of
testosterone and all the you know
estrogen all those things that keep your
genitals in good shape and keep your sex
drive high men's testosterone drops as
well
but then they're struggling with
directions so if you're an older man and
you can get your head around that you're
not going to get erections as easily as
you did and it doesn't bother you you're
going to be fine
um if you're a woman and you actually
you know
get all the things that are available to
you take HRT if you can like there's
solutions for all of this and don't
think to yourself oh well we're old now
we're not going to be sexual you'll be
fine as well but I think people panic
you know when they hit a certain age and
there's this perception you know like
you know people get I did a campaign for
um replens which is a vagina moisturizer
which most men blinker and good to see
you didn't and it was all about and had
these beautiful images of um older
people kissing passionately or naked
from the back and and they were quite
old they and they they were the most
beautiful images and so many people were
threatened by that they were really
threatened because there was old people
doing sexual things and it would we're
not treated to that we don't see that
very often so when somebody does that
they um yeah people free they don't like
to think about older people having sex
so when you're old you have it already
in your head I'm not supposed to want
sex anymore which is completely untrue
and is that why you wrote a book called
great sex starts at 50. yes because for
me that's what happened I went through
the whole of my life with a high libido
I've written about sex I thought this
isn't going to happen to me because I
know everything about sex of course and
then I hit like 50 no actually probably
even before that and suddenly I realized
I remember typing away one day and
thinking of course David I was single at
the time hadn't masturbated for ages
what's going on have you even thought
about sex for ages and it's the drop in
hormones and you know and it's quite
extraordinary to that whole spontaneous
desire I had very high spontaneous
design suddenly it went so I just
suddenly became like other women I
suppose and suddenly it was like oh my
God I see where everyone's going on
about so I thought yeah for my own sake
I might write that book
and it's very good writing that book
there's a lot of Solutions in there
what are some of the most important
solutions for my listeners that are
maybe experiencing a similar situation
again manage expectations keep having
sex that whole use it or lose it you've
got to keep having sex that's very very
important
um get your head around the whole thing
about that old doesn't mean that you
can't be sexy you can be it doesn't
matter what you look like it's what you
feel like it's it's so many many
different things and also you don't have
to put I think a society particularly
English people we all put up with stuff
like there are solutions for all of
these things you know like if you've got
to dry vagina go and get a vagina
moisturizer go and get a you know
estrogen pessary there are solutions for
everything that happens with menopause
you don't have to sit there and just put
up with it all because if you do then
you won't want to have sex definitely so
seek all the solutions don't be scared
to to try and find solutions to all
these things because they really are out
there change your headset you know and
the women it's interesting that they did
a big thing about what really influences
women's desire post menopause and it
wasn't menopause it was your attitude to
sex if you'd always loved sex and you
wanted sex to continue you found the
solutions and you kept on having great
sex if you were never that Keen it's
like well actually you know what here we
go an obstacle what a great salute what
a great sort of excuse to never have sex
again so its attitude was way more
important to how good the sex was after
menopause nothing to do with menopause
it seems again like the one of the
foundations behind all of this that's
kind of hiding in the back room when it
as it relates to people's libido and
their attitudes to sex is that kind of
childhood experiences we talked about
which is super tricky to unpack and even
become aware of and we all have our own
childhood experiences of sex intimacy
relationships some cases in the worst
case is abuse and all those things
that's terrible that we need to find a
way to overcome first or address first
before we can even that's right and I
mean particularly for men often their
first experience childhood experience of
sex is being caught masturbating
and how the parent deals with that is
very formative because if it's like
absolutely what are you doing you know
like do you it's very filthy it's dirty
it's like what are you doing then they
are going to
continue to masturbate because pretty
much they do but they're going to try
and do it faster and faster and faster
so every time they masturbate they're
going to be trying to get it down to as
quick as quick as possible time so that
they don't get in trouble again and then
they end up with rapid ejaculation they
can last two seconds before they
ejaculate so that's affected their sex
life in a in a purely physical way it
sets us up in so many different ways our
childhood you know and I mean I was
lucky to grow up in a household where
why a household was like that but we
just talked about sex opening I suppose
my sister worked for Family Planning
which helped but that was later so I
don't know my mum and my dad were really
cool talking about sex and things and so
I grew up thinking oh yeah all
households are like that but they're not
it's an unknown and known so how do you
go about even solving for those things I
guess you have to go to therapy and
start unpacking it yeah or just unpack
it yourself you have to just think about
you don't necessarily have to go to
therapy there's so much I mean the joy
of the internet is there's so much
online that you can do if you typed in
you know I don't like sex as my parents
you know taught me there's a book called
sex marginally which is very good about
childhoods sex smart it's called sex
smart yeah you can still buy it's an old
book but it sort of delves into all of
this and yeah I mean I think I'm So Pro
therapy I think everybody should go to
therapy no one has a perfect childhood
in fact having a perfect childhood can
also set you up for things so you know
if we if we have a problem if you have a
problem with sex you know going to see a
really good sex therapist is could sort
it out very quickly so don't leave it
too late
oh God I work out and I can't even pick
all these books
this isn't even all the books is it no
so you've got hot relationships how to
have one great sex starts at 50. the sex
doctor fix your love life fast hot sex
how how to do it we've got dare oh yeah
oh that looks very uh 50 Shades it is a
bit more Hots more hot sex would
um would like to meet yeah that was the
TV show I did about dating oh yes okay
interesting with that
there's a question there I should ask
because I'm thinking again about a
friend that's just popped to mind
is there something going on with male
and female dating in terms of it
becoming more difficult in the modern
day and age there's some stats that one
of my podcast guests shared about how
women are
um having less children and they're
finding it more difficult to date and to
find a compatible male in the modern way
that Society is designed
and I've got friends that are
you know around that sort of mid late
30s range that are really really really
struggling in the modern world it's
almost I almost men or women or both
women right I almost suspect that
um
I actually didn't have that many friends
that were in that region that aren't um
but it's almost like there's a
generation almost caught in a gap where
you're eating gen Z native to social
media the internet you know that's the
where they grew up and then maybe the
older generation already already
partnered off because you know they met
someone at church yeah yeah this
generation who were caught in the Gap
are they all high achieving women yeah
yeah exactly that's the problem so what
happens is you get and this is why there
are more and more single women now
because more and more women are high
achieving so they're not like looking
for a husband straight away and when
you've got a big gene pool of people to
you know like when you come out of uni
or even before you go into uni because
lots of people meet at Union Stay
Together you've got this big you know
like numbers game you've got loads of
women single loads of men single and you
sort of all hook up and if your
motivation is to get married and have
kids and that's your only motivation
you're going to find a partner early and
that's it you job done keep going right
assuming it all goes well but if your
motivation isn't necessarily that if you
want to go on to University you know get
your career reassorted and then turn
around and have kids like at 30 okay
right now achieved I'm at the past you
know where I want to have kids but and I
can take a bit of a break here and and
then suddenly where is he well he's not
there because he's already been taken up
everybody else and Men traditionally
don't like dating High achieving women
unless they're high achieving themselves
and the amount of high achieving women
is getting higher and the amount of high
achieving men is getting lower so you've
got even less of a pool to choose from
so the answer for the women is to think
outside the square and think right okay
do I really need the guy who's got the
degree because women High achieving
women like to go for high achieving men
statistically it's just generally what
happens isn't it if I've got a degree I
want somebody else who's got a degree so
then you have to change your wish list a
little bit and think okay I'm gonna you
know looking at I'm not going to be as
rigid with my you know must-haves and
perhaps you know think about things like
well does it really matter how much he
earns if I'm already earning lots of
money you know isn't kindness you know
generosity sense of humor attractiveness
you know just general chemistry isn't
that isn't that enough so if you go for
those qualities you end up a lot better
off and end up happier as well is that
against our innate wiring because you
know some people sometimes say that men
care less about the financial resources
of their partner
um so does that kind of go for me if I'm
a if I'm a woman and I'm looking for
a a partner am I going to look for
someone who is
kind of up and to the right
probably but that doesn't necessarily
work see for me that didn't work because
if I'm I'm like very alpha female so
whenever I went out with an alpha male
we were just like
they hated each other it's like I'm the
boss I'm the boss no if I were off now
I'm controlling you no you know no it
didn't work at all didn't work at all
very competitive I'm too competitive
they were too competitive that didn't
work so so I've got I mean my partner is
really proud of me he's not at all
um
threatened in the slightest by any
success any success I've have he's my
biggest
proudest supporter he and and we work
differently like you know if if my thing
is to you know
um if you know I make more money than
him he doesn't mind me saying that
because he's he's fine with it and so if
I've got my money that's great so
therefore you know if he's got more time
than me to do the traditional female
things then he's fine with that and then
sometimes other times I'll do it and you
know he assumes the male role so it's
very um you know we're comfortable with
each other we we you know we don't care
care that I tick the mailboxes in some
roles and he ticks the female boxes and
it works very well and and I think you
have to I think that's hopefully where
we're headed but there is there are some
times where I mean I know I know I'm not
typical with females I know that a lot
of women you know won't go out with a
man unless he makes a lot of money
particularly if they make a lot of money
they won't I've never been like that
I've never been get their money it's my
if I want money I'll make it myself
thanks I don't want to have someone
else's money that's not mine
so I do think
it's a big problem for women and men I
think we both have to especially women
have to stop being so rigid with that
you know and how expect the man to
provide I think men have to stop being
so feeling emasculated if it's the woman
who's owning more so what who cares as
soon as someone's got some money
somewhere along the line who cares which
one if you're in that age range between
say 30 and 40 and you're a woman and
you're single and you don't want to be
single I think that's important so you
don't want to be single you want to have
you know you want to meet your partner
you want to have a family whatever it
might be
what advice would you give to that
person I'm thinking now about my a
series of my close um friends that are
women that are single in that range and
that have expressed that they they don't
want to be single
um but they're struggling for all the
reasons you said super high achieving
um you know they're they've got great
careers they're very very busy because
of that as well they've you know yeah
that was the issue isn't it it's um
I mean I was talking about Helen Gurley
Brown the cosmo founder and she always
said you can have it all and that's the
biggest lie when we've been sold you
can't have it all there is something
that gives and and these high Achievers
yeah they have compromised their chances
of finding a partner by putting it all
into their career you can't have it all
and I did that I mean it took me to 50.
I had lots of relationships it took me
to 50 to find somebody that was I was
compatible with it's not easy it's
really really difficult and I was out
there meeting tons of people so first
except that it's nothing to do with you
doesn't mean that you're not attractive
or anything you're probably less
marketable because you're too
intelligent and some men would be
freaked by that and you're too
successful and some men would be freaked
by that they don't know what to do with
you and it makes them feel bad because
they're going to those traditional
patterns like how she's going to go out
with me you know I'm not as successful
as her so I'm not even going to try so
you have to make the approach number one
um change your wish list to become
qualities personality qualities not you
know must be a certain height must be a
certain income must drive this car must
you know all those sort of things
because they really don't match so and
um and also date outside of type like go
out with people look beyond the exterior
see what's inside like
I think they'll be very quick to go oh I
know I can't grow with that person you
know like go on a couple of days and
even if the first date's disaster
go on two or three days go on at least
three with people you know go out all
the time often these women are so busy
it's like well when it when do you
actually go out to actually put yourself
in a situation where you can meet
someone never
they're not going to walk in your Lounge
room are they unless you sort of order
delivery and you know they're really not
so come on you've got to make some
effort here you've got to do the numbers
game and I don't know where that dating
apps are the right way forward but
they're probably the only way it's the
way that most people meet so you kind of
have to just suck it up and get on there
I think I think that's phenomenal advice
I was really really happy you said that
as well because I know certain friends
of mine could be listening um and hate
me for it no I don't think so I think
it's it's an opinion it's one that makes
um sense and I think that's all that
anyone can deliver on this podcast and
that's that's why I like it it's and it
actually matches the opinion I had from
a man previously on this podcast who
received quite a
um when a man says those kinds of things
I don't think it's received as well
necessarily because they're speaking
from a place of like they don't have the
lived experience and there's a lot of
like gender inequality things that are
you know historical things with men and
um the term one of my previous guests
used to describe it was
um tall girl problem
that you see what I mean it's not a good
it's not necessarily the most um
yeah yes you could say small man problem
yeah exactly it's the same thing you
know this is an interesting question
it's probably the question I should have
started with what is sex
well sex certainly isn't intercourse and
people need to stop thinking of sex as
intercourse sex is any type of
any type of feeling word thought that
makes you feel aroused that's how I
describe sex and what what purpose is it
solving why does it exist
to create other human beings this is why
you know our going right back to the
beginning this whole thing that we have
that you know why can't we have the sex
at the beginning all the way through
because it doesn't suit it wouldn't work
if you were so in you know loss driven
and all you wanted to do was shag like
rabbits you would never get anything
else done you certainly wouldn't have
children you certainly wouldn't have a
job so we are designed to keep the world
in a safe place we go through lust and
infatuation romance attachment for a
reason so that we calm down if we don't
have the hot sex and we keep the world
you know we bring up our children in a
sensible way and the world continues
what does that say about monogamy though
because if that's probably not natural
that's what I was going to say because
if my sex drive is deteriorating to any
degree one would suggest that's
encouraging me to go shag someone else
well it is but you don't because you
love your partner so you you it's a
trade-off it's always a trade-off you
can have the love and this contentment
and the companionship and this is why
older you know you'd asked about
um infidelity statistics older people
don't cheat very much who are in good
relationships because they're not having
that drive that that lust is gone you
know your your sex drive is lower as you
get older and it's the trade-off it's
like yeah I could go out and cheat and
have really hot sex but I'm gonna have
to look my partner in the eye and I
really love my partners so I'm gonna I'm
happy to wave goodbye to that hot sex
I've had enough of it in my life so it
depends on your motivation so if you are
driven by sex then just don't settle
down keep swapping partners and get that
out of your system and then you're not
going to be dishonest to anyone but if
you do want a relationship sometimes you
have to go okay we can have great sex
it's not going to be like the same exit
you have at the beginning but you know
what I've got two kids I've got a great
wife I've got you know it's a trade-off
in life isn't it everything's a
trade-off so you don't think monogamy is
uh natural
I think that for sex no
I think for sex no it's absolutely not
for our sex drive it's the worst things
to give some security in you know
predictability and stuff and the same
person over and over no not for our sex
drive but the problem is is that the
alternative is polyamory right so you
have this one love relationship and then
you seek sex elsewhere now in theory
that really appeals to me I can see that
that would be great right but I'm never
gonna I'm not gonna feel comfortable
waving off my husband bye darling you
have a great time you know don't worry
about what time you get back no way I'm
he's my you know his possession isn't it
it's ownership it's sexual ownership
you know I you're not going to you might
want to do it yourself but you're not
going to send your partner off and they
might want to do it themselves but
they're not going to send you off so I
don't know what the solution is I really
don't well as you said in life you can't
have it all so everything is trade-offs
yeah there's another trade-off where I'm
sure some people would love to be able
to have sex with other people but they
wouldn't be able they wouldn't want to
reciprocate that exactly to their
partner we have a closing tradition on
this podcast where the last guest leaves
a question for the next guest not
knowing who they're leaving it for
and the question that's been left for
you okay
when you are near the end of your life
and looking back over it
what will you be proudest of
and what will you regret the most gosh
um
proudest of my career and having helped
people
and one of the really annoying people
when you're in a dinner party who's just
knew what they wanted to do really early
on with the writing and then that
happened very early with my parents
um so I'm really proud of that my first
book I was so excited I literally you
know that when you just jump on the spot
I was literally jumping on the spot I
didn't really do regrets actually I
don't really do regrets maybe I wish
that I was more or had been more
confident I'm confident on the outside
but not on the inside I'm the most
confident unconfident person you'll ever
meet so and probably realize that
no one's looking at you they're too busy
worrying about themselves I wish I'd
sort of calm down a bit and was more
confident what's the symptoms of that
inner lack of confidence
um
insecurity like going away and like
every you know the first time I listened
to this for instance it'll be like oh my
God I was terrible look at me look at
the way I look look at oh my God why
didn't I do something else with my hands
what you know like I'll go through it
then then I'll go don't be silly and
then I'll listen to it and then I'll
have an okay opinion about it but yeah
there's still that little bit there any
idea where that's come from yeah parents
when you're left on your own and feel
abandoned at the age of 15 that's not
great is it
and then all these small things are a
potential abandonment uh maybe people
don't think yeah yeah yeah yeah
it's funny I'm confident I'm confident
of my abilities
um professionally I'm confident that I'm
intelligent
um I don't know I suppose yeah you never
really I mean I remember when I studied
psychology and the and the guy just got
up there and said he was a great
lecturer and he said it's all about your
childhood and we all just rolled our
eyes and went oh for God's sake it's so
like how ridiculous it's not it's not
and it is it really is like I'm still
that 15 year old girl that stood there
terrified you know this she's still
there
and um yeah so it's interesting but I
put on a good show
like everybody
you certainly do put on a good show
thank you so much Tracy um thank you
giving me so much answered so many of my
questions and I know for for sure for
sure people are going to tell you I'm
sure they're going to message you but
for sure for sure I can say on behalf of
all of the people that have listened
you've helped them oh I hope today thank
you and I think everybody will take away
something different from that which is
why it's so incredible I'm gonna do
something I've never done before because
I really want to illustrate how I
believe you've helped people the
previous guests that left you a question
and you know I don't usually tell people
this is a guy called Robert waldinger
and what he has committed his life to is
something called the Harvard
study of well-being I'm going to call it
that I know I've got one word there
wrong right I'm gonna call it the
Harvard study of well-being which was
the longest ever study done on a group
of people to understand what makes
people fundamentally happy at the most
basic level so they followed people for
almost 90 years the same group of people
even you know the founders of the study
have actually died so they've passed the
study on to Robert and at the very heart
of what they found on this study which
ended up being a TED Talk which has done
45 million views it's the most one of
the most listened TED talks of all time
is that the thing that makes us most
happy in life
and also healthiest in terms of an
insulation from stress is relationships
it's number one men that have positive
romantic relationships
um Live 14 years longer women seven
years longer that's right and one of the
things that ends ends great
relationships and leads us to isolation
and loneliness is sexual issues I see it
in all of my friends and the work you're
doing is therefore
um in its very essence helping people to
to solve the most important problem of
all which is connection relationships so
it's incredible work to be doing and
it's work that a lot of people will want
to do and confront because of the
stigmas and taboos that still remain so
thank you so much Tracy thank you thank
you for being so wonderful wonderful
compliment you're captivating no you
really are you're really really
captivating and you're super smart and
you know your stuff and you've looked at
all the research
um you really are the the best at this
so thank you for being here thank you
for helping me you have
um and thank you for helping all of our
wonderful listeners thank you I'm going
to walk away very confident now thank
you awesome and you look amazing by the
way your dress is fantastic everything
about you is fantastic so yeah thank you
you know I never really usually pick the
chocolate flavored heels my favorite are
the banana flavor I love The Salted
Caramel flavor but recently I think I in
part blame Jack in my team who's
obsessed with the chocolate flavor heals
I've started drinking the chocolate
flavor heels for the first time and I
absolutely love them my life means that
I sometimes disregard my diet and it's
funny that's part of the reason why I've
had a lot of guests on this podcast
recently that talk about diet and health
and those kinds of things because I am
trying to make an active effort to be
more healthy to lose a little bit of
weight as well but to be more healthy
and the role that he'll plays in my life
is it means that in those moments where
sometimes I might reach for
you know junk Foods
having an option that is nutritionally
complete that is high in fiber that is
incredibly high in protein that has all
the vitamins and minerals that my body
needs within Arm's Reach that I can
consume on the go is where he always
been a game changer for me you got to
the end of this podcast whenever someone
gets to the end of this podcast I feel
like I owe them a greater debt of
gratitude because that means you listen
to the whole thing and hopefully that
suggests that you enjoyed it if you are
at the end and you enjoyed this podcast
could you do me a little bit of a favor
and hit that subscribe button that's one
of the clearest indicators we have that
this episode was a good episode and we
look at that on all of the episodes to
see which episodes generated the most
subscribers
thank you so much and I'll see you again
next time
[Music]